---
title: Santiago-Valparaíso Century
slug: santiago-valparaiso-century
cover_photo: santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-6.jpg
created_on: 2022-08-20
location: Santiago, Chile
html: building_blocks/post-detail.html
tags:
---
__CONTENT__
!block
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=150649307&title=Santiago%20-%3E%20Valpara%C3%ADso%20Century!&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="padding: 10px; width: 1px; min-width: 100%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
*es dificil pero vale la pena :)*
## I. (Miles 0-10): Salida de Santiago
Even though I left early, I didn't get to avoid the Santiago traffic; the first part of the route was yet another fun exploration of some abolutely wild bike infrastructure featuring a "bike lane" that alternated sides of a median with 3 lanes of traffic on either side, interspersed with rough portions of sidewalk with live wires dangling fully within touching distance. I passed ghostbike after ghostbike in the pre-dawn twilight as I was constantly on the lookout for the next stretch of broken path in a sea of cars, feeling an increasing sense of foreboding about the trip ahead.
!text+img
Eventually the traffic subsided as I made my way into Maipú, one of the nearest suburbs of Santiago, and got onto a nice steady and calm stretch of bike path just as the sun had fully risen. At this point I felt comfortable enough to put in an earbud and start listening to music, which calmed my nerves a bit. 
!img santiago-valparaiso-century/maipu.jpg --nocaption --notitle
## II. (Miles 10-20):  Camino a Rinconada 
Once I successfully (albeit stressfully) managed to navigate the highway interchange at Autopista del Sol, I was officially outside greater Santiago and the car density decreased greatly, which was nice. The next 10 miles or so were along Camino a Rinconada, a two lane road that winds its way through some smaller towns on the outskirts of the city. There was no shoulder but I did see some signs warning caution about cyclists in the road, which was reassuring. I also saw some friendly dogs (pictured). I did shortly after, however, have a harrowing encounter with a very NOT friendly dog (not pictured, but of the crusty medium-small variety) which chased me surprisingly speedily on its stubby little legs, growling and snapping at my ankles. I pedaled for dear life and took some sharp turns until I finally lost it, then stopped for a moment to catch my breath and append a line item to my mental list of why small dogs are little shits who cannot be trusted. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/rinconada1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/rinconada2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/rinconada3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/rinconada4.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
Fueled by fresh fear and numbed by the chilliness of the early morning, I booked it onto Camino a Valparaíso blasting music and disassociating to the calming views of cows and wide open space. As the hills in the distance drew nearer, I braced myself for the longest climb the route had in store. Better to get it done at the beginning?
## III. (Miles 20-30): El Laboratorio del Ciclismo 
!text+img
My garmin beeped to tell me I was entering climb 1/8, 4 miles at 5% grade. Quick stop to snack on dried apricots, sunglasses on, here's where the real fun begins. The road broadened a bit, and I could see the switchbacks meandering around the hill in the distance as I began lowering gears and settling in for the ride. 
!img santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-1.jpg --nocaption --notitle

A bit of the way in, two cyclist bros who had been behind me for a bit passed me and gave me a bit of a look as we exchanged greetings. Not in an unfriendly sort of way, just a that-bike-doesn't-belong-here sort of way which I know very well at this point. I kept a steady pace, and the combination of increasingly beautiful views and much-needed warmth from the exertion and the midmorning sunlight had my mood soaring. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-3.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit

A photo op is always a great excuse to pause for a beat, and thankfully there was ample room off the road on either side to do so (and there were very few cars up here anyway). The "pedalea papi" bike graffiti was a fantastic touch right close to the top of the hill.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-5.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit

!text+img
By the time I got to the top, I was feeling just the right amount of winded - strong tired not dead tired, and I felt really good about conquering that climb. I waved to another cyclist coming from the opposite direction just as the slope was leveling out and he smiled, yelling "¡Bienvenida!". Then just around the corner of the next switchback I passed this sign: 
!img santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-6.jpg --nocaption --notitle

And I laughed to myself a bit, because when I went into one of the Santiago bike shops to ask about the draft route I'd put together for this trip (having been led astray by google maps here before and not seeking to make the same mistake again), one of the mechanics suggested I go over this hill instead of the somewhat flatter albeit longer route to the south I had planned. "Créeme, es dificil pero vale la pena" ^["trust me, it's hard but it's worth it"], he had said. And I was very happy for having followed that bit of advice as I entered "El Laboratorio del Ciclismo" and soared down the best and probably longest downhill stretch I've been lucky enough to experience to date.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-7.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/laboratorio-8.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
## IV. (Miles 30-55): María Pinto, Ciclovía Interregional
During the thrill of the downhill, so low my chin was practically resting on my handlebars, I bombed past the two guys who had passed me on the uphill earlier, and we ended up all back together at the bottom waiting to be let through a construction roadblock. They told me they couldn't believe I had just done that hill on my foldy bike, and when I told them I was going all the way to Valparaíso one of them laughed in disbelief and said something to the effect of "you're crazy" that I didn't fully catch, but I just used context clues like I've become used to doing when I'm not fully sure what's being said and responded that at least it's a great day to be on a bike! They had lots of questions about my bike, very few of which I was able to answer given my woefully limited Spanish bike part vocabulary, but I was able to have an enjoyable if slightly disjointed conversation with them before the construction worker waved us through and they turned onto a different road shortly after. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-5.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
The next 25 miles were fast and flat. The road through the small town of María Pinto offered a mix of shoulder, no shoulder, and somewhat badly paved bike path, but was largely car free; that combined with the lingering high of the long downhill helped lower my stress significantly and I pushed the pace for a bit, eager to get more miles under my belt as noon approached. I stopped briefly around mile 55 to pull a protein bar and some dried fruit out of my bag and ate them while I continued biking. I saw several whole pelotons of cyclists, all of whom were friendly and waved as they passed.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/mariapinto-6.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
## V. (Miles 55-65): Cuesta Ibacache 
The other reason I was motivated to go fast during the flat stretch was because I knew my garmin still said I had 7/8 climbs remaining, and the problem with biking long distances is that what looks like a little blip on an elevation chart turns out to be pretty substantial when you're staring it in the face. The next two were back to back, 3 miles at a 4% grade and 3/4 mile at an 8% grade, and combined they ended up being killer. The first stretch of cliffside switchbacks started out quite lovely, with a decently wide shoulder and gorgeous views and grass that looked impossibly green.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/ibacache-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/ibacache-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/ibacache-3.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
The next part I don't have pictures of, because things got precipituously worse. The shoulder narrowed off into nothing, and the grassy roadsides were replaced by concrete barriers that left no room to pull off and stop - just as the grade increased to a point where the climb became quite strenuous and I felt myself getting dangerously overheated. On top of that, I could feel that I was getting worryingly low on water, having miscalculated how much I'd need since the day had grown far hotter and sunnier than I'd expected, and I had no idea whether the rest of the route would take me through somewhere populated enough that I'd pass a place to buy more water. The accumulated stress of this being my first solo century *and*  knowing I was in a place where there would be very little I could do if I got stuck weighed on me heavily, and as I struggled harder and harder to breathe climbing up that hill with literally no choice but to keep going, it's possible I felt the most scared I've ever been in my life.                 

But if there's one thing long bikes have taught me, it's that pain is often fleeting; you can feel like you can hardly make it 20 more feet at one instant and be back on top of the world 5 miles later. So I dug deep and let the lizard brain adrenaline survival instincts kick in and made it to the top of climb 3, then tried to blink away the spots in my vision as I cruised down into the small pueblo of Los Maitenes.
!text+img
I was extremely thankful to find shortly after a roadside botillería with a drink cooler that had a nice big bottle of red Powerade. I took a minute to sip some of it deliberately even though I wanted to gulp the whole thing down, had some more dried fruits, and pet a cute friendly dog because I was determined not to let the demon dog from earlier make me less of a dog person.
!img santiago-valparaiso-century/ibacache-4.png --nocaption --notitle
## VI. (Miles 65-80): Casablanca
From there, my careful route planning saved me again as I successfully navigated another stressful highway interchange and ended up on a very pleasant road with a bright blue bike path and beautiful orange flowers that covered the next several miles until I entered the slightly bigger town of Casablanca.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-3.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
Getting through the town was a bit tricky as I found myself once again on a pretty car-heavy road with no bike lanes and more frequent turns, but I managed alright and even got to avoid a big construction roadblock by cosplaying as a pedestrian and walking through it on the sidewalk! Suck it cars :)
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-5.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!text+img
I was also pretty nervous about what the next climbs had in store given the trauma of climbs 2 and 3 in Ibacache, but they ended up being much shorter and more manageable. At the end of climb 5 there was a cute horse?cow? who made a noise at me as I passed. My parents taught me better than to be rude on purpose, so I said hello back of course. 
!img santiago-valparaiso-century/casablanca-6.jpg --nocaption --notitle
## VII. (Miles 80-85): El Dinosaurio
Leaving Casablanca brought me through yet another tense almost-highway situation, but thankfully again my map prevailed and there was another route directly adjacent to the highway such that I only briefly had to merge onto Ruta 68 before exiting, where I was greeted by a man ushering cars to parking spots who spotted me and did a big thumbs up and yelled "te quiero!" which toes the line between genuine encouragement and a catcall but having the luxury of being on a speedily moving object I didn't have to worry too much either way.

Soon after, I got the beep that I was approaching climb 7, which was hardly necessary because the road was straight and I could plainly see what looked like a solid vertical wall of asphalt leveling out ever so slightly as I approached. I found a shady spot under an affirming sign with "Valparaíso" on it and ate another protein bar, enjoying the chance to cool off before starting the climb. 

Some of the physical exhaustion set in, but my fears didn't come as close to getting the best of me as before. At that point I had less than a marathon length to go and my doubts about being physically able to complete the ride had thankfully been left behind at Cuesta Ibacache. It's always a stupid sort of fun to count down from marathon length at the end of a long ride, because every time I'm shocked by how maddeningly long a marathon is - too damn long, that's for sure. 

So I queued up some good songs to put on blast, popped some ibuprofen, and mustered the resolve to keep going - climb 7 was indeed as steep as it looked but it was at least pretty short. Something caught my eye once I was high up enough to see across Ruta 68 from the side road that I was on. My heart was roaring in my ears and I was seeing a bit spotty again so at first I thought I was hallucinating but nope, there it was - a full sized brachiosaurus, just vibing on the other side of the highway. El dinosaurio todavía estaba allí.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/dinosaurio-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/dinosaurio-3.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
## VIII. (Miles 85-90): Laguna la Luz 
Unfortunately, I didn't even get to enjoy the downhill from climb 7 because the pavement was so shitty I had to ride my brakes the whole way. It's ok though, I got my bike joy for the day from El Laboratorio del Ciclismo; now my goal was just to make it to Valparaíso in one piece. As it turns out, easier said than done, but I wouldn't know that till later. I did at least get some nice shade as things flattened out and I approached the one detour I had marked on my map: Laguna la Luz, i.e. big ol lake. I could tell I was getting close because the property values visibly soared- all of a sudden I was passing rows upon rows of cookie cutter single family homes and luxury condominiums and roads that looked like they were actually meant to have people on them, not just cars. I had to do some slight off-roading to get to the lake and finding a public access point was a bit tricky, but worth it. 

I took a quick break to enjoy the view and unsuccessfully searched for somewhere secluded enough to pee before deciding I'd have to hold it; I was a long way away from the U.S. but I bet I could definitely still get shot for taking a piss in some rich person's backyard. The lake was a beautiful shade of blue; I was extremely tempted to jump in but ultimately decided against it, not willing to push my luck leaving my bike unattended. It was also nearing 4pm and I was tantalizingly close to being done - for the first time since the morning I let myself get excited about actually finishing this thing, meeting up with my roommate Mikayla and eating some delicious food before collapsing into a cozy bed for an early night of sleep.
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/laguna1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/laguna3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/laguna2.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
## IX. (Miles 90-100): Pure Terror; and finally, Valparaíso 
I don't regret the premature optimism leaving the lake, but hooo boy was that last 10 miles longer and scarier than I could have imagined. I knew I still had 1 climb left to go, but I didn't think it could possibly be that bad compared to what I had faced earlier in the day. I did, however, fail to consider that climb 8 was also the one section of off-road that I had been unable to avoid when I was planning the route. Things started out not great -  I passed through Placillo de Peñuelas, a suburb of Valparaíso, and encountered more almost comically bad bike infrastructure featuring more dangling live wires and bike paths that would simply stop and start with steep curbs where they intersected cross streets, such that I had to bunny hop up and down onto them to save myself the hassle of getting on and off my bike a million times (on the plus side, my bunny hopping skills did get lots of practice on this ride). 

And then the bike paths stopped and it was pure car chaos, which thankfully was where my map told me to take the dirt road into climb 8. As bad as it ended up being, it was definitely the better option. It was pretty tame at first, but then the slope increased and I reached a stretch that wasn't dry sand anymore, just slippery, thick mud - not a chance. Thankfully there were at least no cars, so I admitted defeat, hoisted my bike over my shoulder, and walked about a third of a mile until it leveled out and I was able to continue on my bike again and get back to asphalt shortly after. At that point I was at about mile 95 - so close!!! Only the descent into Valparaíso left to go. As I began cruising down I could just start to make out the skyline in the distance - a bit like first seeing the faint outline of the Prudential again after a long bike in Massachusetts; the end is in sight!
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/hell1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hell2.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
But alas, it wasn't quiiiite that easy. As I entered the outskirts of the city, the downward slope increased dramatically, to the point where I was death gripping my brakes as hard as possible and still struggling to stop while also having to navigate increasing density of cars and sharp turns. On top of that, the dogs were at it again. This time packs of them, all of whom would watch me coming down the street and chase me, growling and snapping, the same way they did the cars - the problem, of course, being that the people in cars have their ankles safely enclosed inside a big metal box and my ankles were meaty drumsticks right there in the open for the dogs to take a chomp out of. 

So with each street corner I turned, I was faced with the alarming dilemma of choosing which mode of serious injury I would prefer: going faster and potentially losing control and crashing, or going slower and seeing just how hungry the dogs really were. It went like this for a few miles, and eventually I reached a street that was so steep (-16% grade!) I felt like the odds of me flipping over headfirst on my bike were too great. Thankfully there were no dogs, so I got off and started walking, carefully and painstakingly slowly because I barely had any traction with my bike shoes on. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/hell3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hell4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hell5.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
And then there was a bright spot - an older woman coming out of her house saw me and gave me a quizzical look, asking where I was biking from. When I told her that I had come from Santiago, her face lit up. "¡Poder femenino!"^[woman power!] she exclaimed, "¡Bienvenida a Valparaíso!"^[Welcome to Valparaíso!]. And after that, one foot unclipped and ready to attempt a safe-ish fall if necessary, I made it down a few more steep streets and past a few more scary dogs into downtown Valparaíso right as my garmin clocked 100 miles. 

The last mile or so to the hostel would have been stressful ordinarily - there was no bike path and lots of cars, so I had to resort to alternating biking-walking on sidewalks and eventually making my way through a maze of a crowded street markets while attracting plenty of stares for my weird bike and probably also for looking like I had just had a brush with death, which tbh feels like I kinda did. But I was so overstimulated and ready to be done that I didn't have the mental capacity to process any of it, and so in a somewhat zombie-like way I navigated through that last bit and turned one final corner to see the sign I had been waiting 100 miles for: La Joya Hostel. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya-10.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
Thankfully, the timing was perfect - it was nearly 5, exactly when I had planned to arrive. Mikayla's bus had gotten there 30 minutes before, and she had already checked us in. So all I had to do was fold my bike, haul it up the stairs, and knock on the door of our room before I was able to collapse in a pile of sweat and relief and happiness. I did the thing. I took a wonderfully hot shower, and then we enjoyed dinner and drinks at the restaurant right next to the hostel and it was the second best post-ride meal I have ever had (the first was at Citizen Cider in Burlington at the end of Bostreal). But it was a very, very close second. And so ended what was easily one of the most stressful and probably dangerous days of my life so far, but also one of the most rewarding and exciting and worthwhile adventures I've been lucky enough to have. 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya5.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya4.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya8.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/lajoya9.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
## X. Epilogue: Sunday in Valparaíso 
#### Friendly cats at hostel
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/hostelcat-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hostelcat-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hostelcat-3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/hostelcat-4.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
#### Early morning at the beach, ft. a half marathon that I just might have signed up for if I had known about it 
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-3.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-5.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/beach-6.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
#### Breakfast, where I learned what a viscacha is
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/breakfast2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/breakfast1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/viscacha.jpeg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
#### Pablo Neruda's House
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda5.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda7.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/neruda2.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
#### Meandering
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday3.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday4.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday11.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday9.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday1.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday10.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday5.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday12.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday13.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday17.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday18.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday14.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday20.jpg --nocaption --notitle 
#### Foldy Bike Appreciation <3
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday15.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday7.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/sunday16.jpg --nocaption --notitle --cropfit
#### And Finally, Back to Santiago
!figs santiago-valparaiso-century/back2.jpg santiago-valparaiso-century/back1.jpg --nocaption --notitle 
!endblock
__ENDCONTENT__
