---
title: 4 Days 4 Countries 4Daagse 🇩🇰🇸🇪🇩🇪🇳🇱
slug: to-the-netherlands-day2
cover_photo: bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-27.JPG
created_on: 2024-07-25
location: Copenhagen, Denmark
html: building_blocks/post-detail.html
tags:
---
__CONTENT__
!block
## Day 2: Bremen 🇩🇪 -> Groningen 🇳🇱
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202669008&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
I slept well that night, maybe one of my top three tent sleeps. Tent sleeps are almost never great sleeps, so that's not saying much, but still. I nervously emerged from the tent, bracing for screams from my legs, but my body seemed far less mad at me than I thought it would be for spending 12 hours on a bike in the sun, eating nothing but processed garbage all day, and then sleeping outside on the ground. And it didn't even rain like it was supposed to! Good omens for the day. I packed up my things and headed out around 8am feeling a little grimy and wishing there was a lake nearby to jump into but otherwise in good spirits.

The first ten miles were similarly pretty to the last ten miles of the day previous, with the addition of cows and some fun bridges. I didn't see a single car all morning, not even another bike! Just cows. Off to an excellent start.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-3.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-2.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-4.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-5.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Then I passed through some lovely smaller towns which meant a bit of mildly tedious spotty bike lanes and stretches of stoplights but also a very pretty mural and a very important snack discovery: Haribo berries. This trip is now sponsored by Haribo berries, they are my new favorite bike snack and it's not even close. I could write an essay about why they are the platonic ideal of everything a bike snack should be. And I'm already here writing an essay so you know what? I'm gonna tell you about Haribo berries. But first, let me explain exactly what I mean by bike snack. 

I don't stop very much when I'm biking, at least much less than other people seem to want to stop when I'm riding with them, but I'm good at keeping my energy levels consistent because I'm good at remembering to keep little snacks in whatever pockets I happen to have available to me. So every 5-ish miles or every decent sized hill I have a couple bites of a carb and every time I feel a little grumble of hunger I have another bite of a protein bar. For this trip I brought enough protein bars to have up to 3 a day, so that was no problem. The carbs I was just making up as I went, but I have very specific criteria. Salty stuff is fun but unless it's nuts (and I'm not the biggest fan of nuts) it's simply not calorically dense enough to do the trick. You need something that you can eat a couple pieces at a time such that a couple pieces is enough to give you a noticeable little energy boost; crunching on a few pretzel sticks every now and then isn't gonna cut it. So for me it's usually dried fruit or candy. Dried fruit is healthier but candy is more fun so I try to split the difference. The day before was dried fruit but 12 hours straight of biking was enough to finish that so the first gas station I passed I had to stop to pick up something new for the day and it was here that I discovered the Haribo berries. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-6.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-8.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-7.JPG --nocaption --notitle
So, what's so great about these things, huh? First of all, the textural experience is 🤌🤌 chefs kiss. They're crunchy on the outside, chewy on the inside, but not so chewy that they stick to your teeth. They taste amazing, not really like berries, but they're candy so it's not like you're expecting it to be authentic. What more could you want? I'll tell you. They're also the perfect size for snacking. The bag itself has a decent amount of berries in it but isn't too big to fit in the back pocket of a bike jersey. Two berries at a time is perfect. They also come in two different colors, so you can play a game with yourself where you pick two from your pocket and make a bet as to which color combination it will be - black+red, red+red, black+black. If you're right, congrats. If you're wrong, sprint for 15 seconds. Breaks up the monotony a bit. Additionally, they induce minimal sensory ick. I love sour candies but I have a rule against using them as bike snacks because the way the sour dust sticks to sweaty hands and then lingers on the handlebars is not dissimilar to the feeling of getting sand in your swimsuit. The crunchy exterior of the berries, on the other hand, leaves not a trace. Not only that, it seems to make them miraculously resistant to melting in the heat! Anyway, that was my first revelation for the day.

My second revelation was that the route contained a surprise ferry! All of a sudden, I turned a corner and the bike path disappeared and in its place there was a ramp to board a boat. Confused as to whether there was a physical place I needed to buy the tickets or if I was supposed to purchase them online or maybe even if it was free, I just biked onto the boat and waited for someone to (hopefully gently) tell me if I was doing something wrong. Instead, a man just came up to me with a card scanner and charged me two euros as the boat rumbled away from the dock. No awkward attempts to apologize for my lack of German necessary! First the discovery of the berries, now this?? I was feeling a little like god's favorite that day. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-9.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-11.JPG --nocaption --notitle

After the shortest ferry ride I've ever experienced (mayyyybe five minutes tops), I was on the other side of the river and on my way again. In the morning my company was cows, and in the afternoon my company was sheep. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-12.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-13.JPG --nocaption --notitle

Then I was alone again with fields and wind turbines and the occasional bridge and an increasingly nasty headwind. It didn't help that the roads were devoid of any interesting twists and turns, just mind-numbingly straight and flat for miles on end. After a while I felt like my options were either to ride super slow, resting on the tops of the bars and just slugging along while taking my beating from the wind, or try to be as aero as possible, crouched into the drops, and book it as hard as I could. There wasn't really an in-between that felt sustainable so I found myself alternating between those two modes, which helped break up the monotony a bit at the expense of draining my energy more than my usual steadier pace.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-14.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-15.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
I passed the halfway point in Sellingen and began using interesting structures as excuses to stop for a beat. Thankfully, there were several. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-16.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-17.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-18.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
The afternoon began to drag as the wind refused to let up and the heat increased, so I found myself actually getting excited by the prospect of rain as the sky began to look angrier - both for a shower to rinse off the sweat and because it would probably do wonders for killing the wind. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-19.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-21.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-23.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
All it took was a little more patience for my wish to be granted. I couldn't stop laughing aloud as the rain started to pour down on me, I was the type of slightly crazy elated you only get when you've been doing some stupid kind of exertion for a stupid long time. It was marvelous. As I passed over a canal and glimpsed a boat flying the Dutch flag, I was reminded of the fun fact that I was approaching my first ever international border crossing by bike. Even though I had been warned that it would be underwhelming and there might not even be any sign to tell me when I'd officially entered the Netherlands, I could nonetheless hardly contain my excitement.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-25.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-24.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-26.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
It did indeed end up being the case that one could easily miss any signs indicating a border crossing if they weren't looking for them, not realizing they were in a new country until all of a sudden the street signs were in a different language. But I was looking :) And there were a couple signs, however subtle. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-29.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-27.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-30.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
And so it was that I had officially made it to the Netherlands! Two days of biking and a little over 200 miles later, not too shabby 😎. There was still a ways to go to get to Nijmegen, of course, but with the border crossing my work for the day was nearly done. A few more miles later and I arrived at my second camping spot, De Slangenborg. For this night I had opted for a real campsite with amenities and the like because the idea of not showering for 4 days straight was a little too gross for me. And it was indeed really, really nice to have a proper bathroom and a warm shower even though the continuing rain was doing its best to rinse me off for itself. Of course, as timing would have it, the rain decided to reach peak intensity just as I was in the process of attempting to set up my tent as quickly as possible and stop almost as soon as I had finished. Bad luck, but at least there was still some daylight left so the inside of the tent could dry a little before I had to sleep. Feeling like a new person after the incredible shower and warm dinner and a couple catch-up calls with some of my favorite people, I settled in for the night looking forward to being able to understand the street signs slightly better for the rest of the journey. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-32.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-31.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

!button to-the-netherlands-day1 previous
!button to-the-netherlands-day3 next
!endblock
__ENDCONTENT__
