---
title: 4 Days 4 Countries 4Daagse 🇩🇰🇸🇪🇩🇪🇳🇱
slug: to-the-netherlands-day1
cover_photo: bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-27.JPG
created_on: 2024-07-25
location: Copenhagen, Denmark
html: building_blocks/post-detail.html
tags:
---
__CONTENT__
!block
## Day 1: Travemunde 🇩🇪 -> Bremen 🇩🇪
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202415622&title=bikey%20to%20the%20netherlands%20day%201&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
I woke up a little before 6am to an announcement on the loudspeakers that the ferry would be docking in Germany in an hour - exciting! For breakfast I had a couple buns that I had stolen from the dining hall the previous night to make the 22 euros I had paid for crappy dinner hurt a little less. I packed my things and went out to the balcony to soak in the morning sunlight and admire the harbor views before going down to stand by my bike and wish the other bikepackers I had met yesterday safe travels. I envied the two French sisters; their dogs seemed like excellent adventure buddies. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-2.JPG --nocaption --notitle
But I was also looking forward to the solo journey that was about to unfold for me, even though it was incredibly daunting to load up the route on my Garmin and see 129 miles remaining for the day, hah. The first half of the day from Travemunde to Hamburg was pretty uneventful, but gave me a good sense of what the German bike infrastructure would be like for the next two days. Bike lanes still very often separated from the road, which is nice, but way less orderly than Denmark - lots of randomly switching sides, lots of construction, lots of bricks and cobblestones instead of asphalt. Also a lot of trying to decipher what the street signs were telling me to do and being reminded of the "this sign can't stop me because I can't read" meme (even though my Danish and my Dutch were tag-teaming to help me out a bit with the German). There were some pretty sunflower fields and a couple fun bridges and some nice separated stretches away from cars for a bit. I may have stepped in some kind of mildly poisonous plant to get the sunflower picture, oops... my legs stung for about an hour afterwards and I was a little concerned but eventually the prickling sensation went away so I figured it was probably fine. Not my brightest moment in hindsight but I'm glad I have the picture :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-3.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-6.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-5.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-4.JPG --nocaption --notitle
I reached Hamburg around 1pm feeling quite good. The stoplights and traffic were a bit annoying but there were lots of fun bridges! I contemplated stopping somewhere for lunch but the remaining 70 miles were weighing a bit too much to me so I decided to just have another protein bar and keep snacking on dried fruit every now and then. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-8.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-7.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-9.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-12.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-11.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Just as I thought I was almost out of the city, things took a little bit of a turn. My map was telling me to cross a bridge over some train tracks, but the bridge did not seem to exist. I spent close to half an hour squinting at my garmin, consulting google maps, and looping around the same few blocks trying to spot any way to the other side of the tracks with no luck before I finally saw the spiral staircase tucked under the overpass in front of me and groaned. Not only had I just wasted a bunch of time going in circles looking for this thing, but now I was going to have to drag _all_ my stuff up and down several flights of stairs. Thankfully another thing I love about my foldy bike is that stairs are far easier with tiny wheels than with normal sized ones. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-13.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-14.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Feeling rather hot and tired and annoyed after that mild ordeal, I made my way out of Hamburg towards the biggest climbs of the day, which at that point felt as if they could not have been more poorly timed. At least it was nice to get them over with before the miles started to _really_ make themselves known to my legs. And all in all they were pretty tame, except the last one which was the steepest and on an unpaved dirt road. That was a little brutal, but thankfully short. And soon after cresting the hill and turning a few corners I was blessed with a sweet, sweet reward: five or so miles of uninterrupted, smooth asphalt at a gentle downhill grade along which I could sink into the drops, chin almost touching the handlebars, and fly. Despite still exerting myself, I could feel the energy flooding back into my body and I knew then with certainty that I could make it through the rest of the day. 

After that the ride settled into rolling hills and scenic stretches of fields and wind turbines. I called with some friends and family to make the hours slip by a little faster, and I was shocked to see that suddenly I was five miles away from officially clocking my seventh century ride. As the 99th mile creeped closer to 100 on my garmin I took a moment to wonder at how much better I was feeling at this point than I thought I would, thinking back to my last century in march (also with camping gear) and how badly my knees were screaming by mile 90. Way cool to feel so much stronger :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-17.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-19.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-20.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-22.JPG --nocaption --notitle

But of course the cardinal rule in biking and in life perhaps is that nothing lasts forever. After another hour or so, with just 15 miles remaining, all the soreness and fatigue I had been marveling at not feeling before piled onto me out of nowhere like a ton of bricks. I was crashing, hard. All of a sudden after not being hungry all day I was ravenous. My mental fuel from that point on was purely the thought of the warm dinner that was waiting for me as soon as I set up camp. And so it was that the last bit of the ride was a sort of gentle, soft torture as golden hour creeped across the fields and I made my way into Bremen for the most beautiful part of the ride all day. There was even a little tiny rainbow hiding behind the clouds.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-24.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-25.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-26.JPG --nocaption --notitle

I had found my place to camp for the night through [1nitetent](https://1nitetent.com/en/home-2/), a really fantastic website mainly useful for Germany but also a little bit in neighboring countries where people (often fellow bikepackers/hikers) offer up their land for folks to spend the night for free. My host had sent me some coordinates on WhatsApp with the instructions to "look for the reddish-brown gate with a black lock and just twist yourself and your bike through", so as I got closer and closer I was really, really hoping it truly would be that simple. The place was right off the bike path, only accessible by bike in fact, and was so well tucked away in the trees that I almost missed it. I checked my phone map to confirm I was in the right spot before investigating just how locked the gate was, mentally preparing to toss my things over if necessary, but to my surprise it was already unlocked and I heard a voice calling out a shy "hello!" from the other side. It turned out to be the guy's girlfriend, just finishing up tending to the plants for the night, who kindly welcomed me into their beautiful garden and showed me around the space. Not expecting to see anyone at all when I got there, I was initially caught off guard, but I was so charmed by the whole encounter that I momentarily forgot my hunger as we chatted for a bit about bike adventures before she packed up her tools and went on her way. 

As soon as I was alone, I crouched down with the intentions to begin unpacking my tent but ended up fully sprawled out on my back in the grass, laughing in relief at having completed the most ambitious leg of my journey and ending it in such an amazing spot. Spending the evening in this charming, secluded little garden with just me and my bike - my own little slice of paradise. I basked in that feeling for as long as my gnawing hunger would allow before setting some water to boil while setting up my tent. Soon I was devouring my deliciously salty camp dinner of lentils and coucous, which was gone all too quickly, but then after roasting some marshmallows on the camping stove for dessert and drinking a generous amount of water I felt sated and ready to let sleep pull me slowly into the next morning. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-27.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-28.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-29.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!button to-the-netherlands previous
!button to-the-netherlands-day2 next
!endblock
__ENDCONTENT__
