---
title: 4 Days 4 Countries 4Daagse 🇩🇰🇸🇪🇩🇪🇳🇱
slug: to-the-netherlands
cover_photo: bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-27.JPG
created_on: 2024-07-25
location: Copenhagen, Denmark
html: building_blocks/post-detail.html
tags:
---
__CONTENT__
!block
Every year in the Netherlands there's a giant event called the [4daagse](https://www.4daagse.nl/en) where a whole lot of people walk 30, 40, or 50 kilometers each day for 4 days straight (and party during the nights, if you're _really_ crazy). It's the largest organized walking event in the world and it takes place in the city of Nijmegen, which also happens to be my girlfriend's hometown, so for the month of July she was back there spending some with her family and preparing to do the walk for her 3rd year (very cool!). 
!text+img
Naturally, I planned myself a fun little vacation to come support her on the walk and experience the magic of the event. We'd already flown to the Netherlands recently so I didn't want to add another two plane trips to my carbon footprint, and taking the train there is a long logistical nightmare. And, of course, I don't have a car let alone a drivers' license that's valid in Europe. So, I decided to get a little creative with my modes of transit and make the journey a bit more fun :) 
!img bikey-to-the-netherlands/summary.png --nocaption --notitle
## Day 0 Part 1: Copenhagen 🇩🇰  -> Malmö 🇸🇪
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202107883&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
!text+img
On Sunday evening, after spending the whole day packing and having some of the worst "am I forgetting something" anxiety I've ever experienced, I left home and embarked upon the first leg of the journey - a very short ride to the Copenhagen airport, where I caught the next train heading across the Øresund bridge to Malmö, Sweden (would have _loved_ to bike across the bridge, but alas, it's train/car only). 
!img bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-1.JPG --nocaption --notitle
## Day 0 Part 2: Malmö 🇸🇪 -> Travemunde 🇩🇪
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202114714&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
!text+img
A little under an hour later, I exited Malmö Central Station and made my way to the Malmö Ferry Port, arriving just in time for check-in at 8pm. I got to chat a bit with a lovely Danish bikepacking family and two French bikepacking sisters towing 4 (2 each!) dogs in baby trailers before we were signaled ahead to start biking past the checkpoint and to the ferry loading dock. That was when I properly realized this is a wayyyyy bigger ferry than I have ever been on - a cruise ship basically! 
!img bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-4.JPG --nocaption --notitle
I could hardly contain my excitement as I approached the massive open mouth of the ship, harbor in the background sparkling in the light of golden hour. My nerves started to ease up a bit; first step done! If all went according to plan this was going to be a _very_ fun trip :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-2.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-3.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Once my bike was stowed, I had a quick, disappointing, and regrettably overpriced ferry buffet dinner (next time, remembering to bring my own food) before settling into my cozy little cabin to hopefully get the best sleep I'd be having for the next few days. It was indeed a pretty good sleep, if a bit cold. It was my first time ever sleeping on a boat, let alone being on a boat this huge. There were lots of interesting noises.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-5.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day0-6.JPG --nocaption --notitle

## Day 1: Travemunde 🇩🇪 -> Bremen 🇩🇪
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202415622&title=bikey%20to%20the%20netherlands%20day%201&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
I woke up a little before 6am to an announcement on the loudspeakers that the ferry would be docking in Germany in an hour - exciting! For breakfast I had a couple buns that I had stolen from the dining hall the previous night to make the 22 euros I had paid for crappy dinner hurt a little less. I packed my things and went out to the balcony to soak in the morning sunlight and admire the harbor views before going down to stand by my bike and wish the other bikepackers I had met yesterday safe travels. I envied the two French sisters; their dogs seemed like excellent adventure buddies. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-2.JPG --nocaption --notitle
But I was also looking forward to the solo journey that was about to unfold for me, even though it was incredibly daunting to load up the route on my Garmin and see 129 miles remaining for the day, hah. The first half of the day from Travemunde to Hamburg was pretty uneventful, but gave me a good sense of what the German bike infrastructure would be like for the next two days. Bike lanes still very often separated from the road, which is nice, but way less orderly than Denmark - lots of randomly switching sides, lots of construction, lots of bricks and cobblestones instead of asphalt. Also a lot of trying to decipher what the street signs were telling me to do and being reminded of the "this sign can't stop me because I can't read" meme (even though my Danish and my Dutch were tag-teaming to help me out a bit with the German). There were some pretty sunflower fields and a couple fun bridges and some nice separated stretches away from cars for a bit. I may have stepped in some kind of mildly poisonous plant to get the sunflower picture, oops... my legs stung for about an hour afterwards and I was a little concerned but eventually the prickling sensation went away so I figured it was probably fine. Not my brightest moment in hindsight but I'm glad I have the picture :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-3.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-6.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-5.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-4.JPG --nocaption --notitle
I reached Hamburg around 1pm feeling quite good. The stoplights and traffic were a bit annoying but there were lots of fun bridges! I contemplated stopping somewhere for lunch but the remaining 70 miles were weighing a bit too much to me so I decided to just have another protein bar and keep snacking on dried fruit every now and then. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-8.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-7.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-9.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-12.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-11.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Just as I thought I was almost out of the city, things took a little bit of a turn. My map was telling me to cross a bridge over some train tracks, but the bridge did not seem to exist. I spent close to half an hour squinting at my garmin, consulting google maps, and looping around the same few blocks trying to spot any way to the other side of the tracks with no luck before I finally saw the spiral staircase tucked under the overpass in front of me and groaned. Not only had I just wasted a bunch of time going in circles looking for this thing, but now I was going to have to drag _all_ my stuff up and down several flights of stairs. Thankfully another thing I love about my foldy bike is that stairs are far easier with tiny wheels than with normal sized ones. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-13.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-14.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Feeling rather hot and tired and annoyed after that mild ordeal, I made my way out of Hamburg towards the biggest climbs of the day, which at that point felt as if they could not have been more poorly timed. At least it was nice to get them over with before the miles started to _really_ make themselves known to my legs. And all in all they were pretty tame, except the last one which was the steepest and on an unpaved dirt road. That was a little brutal, but thankfully short. And soon after cresting the hill and turning a few corners I was blessed with a sweet, sweet reward: five or so miles of uninterrupted, smooth asphalt at a gentle downhill grade along which I could sink into the drops, chin almost touching the handlebars, and fly. Despite still exerting myself, I could feel the energy flooding back into my body and I knew then with certainty that I could make it through the rest of the day. 

After that the ride settled into rolling hills and scenic stretches of fields and wind turbines. I called with some friends and family to make the hours slip by a little faster, and I was shocked to see that suddenly I was five miles away from officially clocking my seventh century ride. As the 99th mile creeped closer to 100 on my garmin I took a moment to wonder at how much better I was feeling at this point than I thought I would, thinking back to my last century in march (also with camping gear) and how badly my knees were screaming by mile 90. Way cool to feel so much stronger :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-17.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-19.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-20.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-22.JPG --nocaption --notitle

But of course the cardinal rule in biking and in life perhaps is that nothing lasts forever. After another hour or so, with just 15 miles remaining, all the soreness and fatigue I had been marveling at not feeling before piled onto me out of nowhere like a ton of bricks. I was crashing, hard. All of a sudden after not being hungry all day I was ravenous. My mental fuel from that point on was purely the thought of the warm dinner that was waiting for me as soon as I set up camp. And so it was that the last bit of the ride was a sort of gentle, soft torture as golden hour creeped across the fields and I made my way into Bremen for the most beautiful part of the ride all day. There was even a little tiny rainbow hiding behind the clouds.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-24.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-25.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-26.JPG --nocaption --notitle

I had found my place to camp for the night through [1nitetent](https://1nitetent.com/en/home-2/), a really fantastic website mainly useful for Germany but also a little bit in neighboring countries where people (often fellow bikepackers/hikers) offer up their land for folks to spend the night for free. My host had sent me some coordinates on WhatsApp with the instructions to "look for the reddish-brown gate with a black lock and just twist yourself and your bike through", so as I got closer and closer I was really, really hoping it truly would be that simple. The place was right off the bike path, only accessible by bike in fact, and was so well tucked away in the trees that I almost missed it. I checked my phone map to confirm I was in the right spot before investigating just how locked the gate was, mentally preparing to toss my things over if necessary, but to my surprise it was already unlocked and I heard a voice calling out a shy "hello!" from the other side. It turned out to be the guy's girlfriend, just finishing up tending to the plants for the night, who kindly welcomed me into their beautiful garden and showed me around the space. Not expecting to see anyone at all when I got there, I was initially caught off guard, but I was so charmed by the whole encounter that I momentarily forgot my hunger as we chatted for a bit about bike adventures before she packed up her tools and went on her way. 

As soon as I was alone, I crouched down with the intentions to begin unpacking my tent but ended up fully sprawled out on my back in the grass, laughing in relief at having completed the most ambitious leg of my journey and ending it in such an amazing spot. Spending the evening in this charming, secluded little garden with just me and my bike - my own little slice of paradise. I basked in that feeling for as long as my gnawing hunger would allow before setting some water to boil while setting up my tent. Soon I was devouring my deliciously salty camp dinner of lentils and coucous, which was gone all too quickly, but then after roasting some marshmallows on the camping stove for dessert and drinking a generous amount of water I felt sated and ready to let sleep pull me slowly into the next morning. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-27.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-28.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day1-29.JPG --nocaption --notitle

## Day 2: Bremen 🇩🇪 -> Groningen 🇳🇱
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202669008&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
I slept well that night, maybe one of my top three tent sleeps. Tent sleeps are almost never great sleeps, so that's not saying much, but still. I nervously emerged from the tent, bracing for screams from my legs, but my body seemed far less mad at me than I thought it would be for spending 12 hours on a bike in the sun, eating nothing but processed garbage all day, and then sleeping outside on the ground. And it didn't even rain like it was supposed to! Good omens for the day. I packed up my things and headed out around 8am feeling a little grimy and wishing there was a lake nearby to jump into but otherwise in good spirits.

The first ten miles were similarly pretty to the last ten miles of the day previous, with the addition of cows and some fun bridges. I didn't see a single car all morning, not even another bike! Just cows. Off to an excellent start.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-3.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-2.JPG --nocaption --notitle
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-4.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-5.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Then I passed through some lovely smaller towns which meant a bit of mildly tedious spotty bike lanes and stretches of stoplights but also a very pretty mural and a very important snack discovery: Haribo berries. This trip is now sponsored by Haribo berries, they are my new favorite bike snack and it's not even close. I could write an essay about why they are the platonic ideal of everything a bike snack should be. And I'm already here writing an essay so you know what? I'm gonna tell you about Haribo berries. But first, let me explain exactly what I mean by bike snack. 

I don't stop very much when I'm biking, at least much less than other people seem to want to stop when I'm riding with them, but I'm good at keeping my energy levels consistent because I'm good at remembering to keep little snacks in whatever pockets I happen to have available to me. So every 5-ish miles or every decent sized hill I have a couple bites of a carb and every time I feel a little grumble of hunger I have another bite of a protein bar. For this trip I brought enough protein bars to have up to 3 a day, so that was no problem. The carbs I was just making up as I went, but I have very specific criteria. Salty stuff is fun but unless it's nuts (and I'm not the biggest fan of nuts) it's simply not calorically dense enough to do the trick. You need something that you can eat a couple pieces at a time such that a couple pieces is enough to give you a noticeable little energy boost; crunching on a few pretzel sticks every now and then isn't gonna cut it. So for me it's usually dried fruit or candy. Dried fruit is healthier but candy is more fun so I try to split the difference. The day before was dried fruit but 12 hours straight of biking was enough to finish that so the first gas station I passed I had to stop to pick up something new for the day and it was here that I discovered the Haribo berries. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-6.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-8.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-7.JPG --nocaption --notitle
So, what's so great about these things, huh? First of all, the textural experience is 🤌🤌 chefs kiss. They're crunchy on the outside, chewy on the inside, but not so chewy that they stick to your teeth. They taste amazing, not really like berries, but they're candy so it's not like you're expecting it to be authentic. What more could you want? I'll tell you. They're also the perfect size for snacking. The bag itself has a decent amount of berries in it but isn't too big to fit in the back pocket of a bike jersey. Two berries at a time is perfect. They also come in two different colors, so you can play a game with yourself where you pick two from your pocket and make a bet as to which color combination it will be - black+red, red+red, black+black. If you're right, congrats. If you're wrong, sprint for 15 seconds. Breaks up the monotony a bit. Additionally, they induce minimal sensory ick. I love sour candies but I have a rule against using them as bike snacks because the way the sour dust sticks to sweaty hands and then lingers on the handlebars is not dissimilar to the feeling of getting sand in your swimsuit. The crunchy exterior of the berries, on the other hand, leaves not a trace. Not only that, it seems to make them miraculously resistant to melting in the heat! Anyway, that was my first revelation for the day.

My second revelation was that the route contained a surprise ferry! All of a sudden, I turned a corner and the bike path disappeared and in its place there was a ramp to board a boat. Confused as to whether there was a physical place I needed to buy the tickets or if I was supposed to purchase them online or maybe even if it was free, I just biked onto the boat and waited for someone to (hopefully gently) tell me if I was doing something wrong. Instead, a man just came up to me with a card scanner and charged me two euros as the boat rumbled away from the dock. No awkward attempts to apologize for my lack of German necessary! First the discovery of the berries, now this?? I was feeling a little like god's favorite that day. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-9.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-11.JPG --nocaption --notitle

After the shortest ferry ride I've ever experienced (mayyyybe five minutes tops), I was on the other side of the river and on my way again. In the morning my company was cows, and in the afternoon my company was sheep. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-12.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-13.JPG --nocaption --notitle

Then I was alone again with fields and wind turbines and the occasional bridge and an increasingly nasty headwind. It didn't help that the roads were devoid of any interesting twists and turns, just mind-numbingly straight and flat for miles on end. After a while I felt like my options were either to ride super slow, resting on the tops of the bars and just slugging along while taking my beating from the wind, or try to be as aero as possible, crouched into the drops, and book it as hard as I could. There wasn't really an in-between that felt sustainable so I found myself alternating between those two modes, which helped break up the monotony a bit at the expense of draining my energy more than my usual steadier pace.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-14.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-15.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
I passed the halfway point in Sellingen and began using interesting structures as excuses to stop for a beat. Thankfully, there were several. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-16.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-17.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-18.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
The afternoon began to drag as the wind refused to let up and the heat increased, so I found myself actually getting excited by the prospect of rain as the sky began to look angrier - both for a shower to rinse off the sweat and because it would probably do wonders for killing the wind. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-19.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-21.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-23.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
All it took was a little more patience for my wish to be granted. I couldn't stop laughing aloud as the rain started to pour down on me, I was the type of slightly crazy elated you only get when you've been doing some stupid kind of exertion for a stupid long time. It was marvelous. As I passed over a canal and glimpsed a boat flying the Dutch flag, I was reminded of the fun fact that I was approaching my first ever international border crossing by bike. Even though I had been warned that it would be underwhelming and there might not even be any sign to tell me when I'd officially entered the Netherlands, I could nonetheless hardly contain my excitement.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-25.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-24.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-26.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
It did indeed end up being the case that one could easily miss any signs indicating a border crossing if they weren't looking for them, not realizing they were in a new country until all of a sudden the street signs were in a different language. But I was looking :) And there were a couple signs, however subtle. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-29.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-27.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-30.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
And so it was that I had officially made it to the Netherlands! Two days of biking and a little over 200 miles later, not too shabby 😎. There was still a ways to go to get to Nijmegen, of course, but with the border crossing my work for the day was nearly done. A few more miles later and I arrived at my second camping spot, De Slangenborg. For this night I had opted for a real campsite with amenities and the like because the idea of not showering for 4 days straight was a little too gross for me. And it was indeed really, really nice to have a proper bathroom and a warm shower even though the continuing rain was doing its best to rinse me off for itself. Of course, as timing would have it, the rain decided to reach peak intensity just as I was in the process of attempting to set up my tent as quickly as possible and stop almost as soon as I had finished. Bad luck, but at least there was still some daylight left so the inside of the tent could dry a little before I had to sleep. Feeling like a new person after the incredible shower and warm dinner and a couple catch-up calls with some of my favorite people, I settled in for the night looking forward to being able to understand the street signs slightly better for the rest of the journey. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-32.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day2-31.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

## Day 3: Groningen 🇳🇱 -> Apeldoorn 🇳🇱
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=202935516&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
Unfortunately, my gamble on leaving my clothes outside overnight to dry did not pay off as I woke up to unforecasted rain in the morning. I was a bit slower to get going due to being thoroughly grossed out by everything being wet, but still managed to leave a little after 8am. So the morning was not off to the best start, but thankfully the rain let up soon after I left and things dry quick on a bike so it only took about an hour before I was feeling good again, as well as relieved that my body didn't feel too broken yet. I learned early on that I would be counting windmills all day. Very fun. I almost missed the first one I passed before making a sharp U-turn to go back and grab a photo with it.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-2.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
The morning passed by pretty quick, with me feeling very grateful for the relative lack of headwind compared to yesterday and for the complete and total lack of any hills whatsoever. The roads were beautiful and delightfully smooth and passed through many canals and flower-dotted fields. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-3.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-5.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-4.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-7.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-6.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
As soon as it was morning east coast time I called with some people to break up the loops of my thoughts a bit as the afternoon slid by. It was fun to show them bits and pieces of the incredible bike infrastructure I was encountering on my way, from the neatly numbered bike route system to the massive rows of bike parking near train stations to the bike highways snaking along next to the actual highways.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-9.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-12.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
More interesting sights included some more windmills and a goat playground (yes, you read that right)!
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-11.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-13.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-14.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-15.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
Then the route took me through a nature preserve, which was very pretty and had some teeny tiny hills to switch things up a bit.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-16.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-17.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
After a long and slightly tedious stretch of straight road with lots of other bike traffic, the trees gave way to farmland and I was alone again. Normally I don't like straight lines so much, but the symmetry of fields and the bike path and the horizon was very satisfying.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-18.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-19.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-20.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

I love the Netherlands, I really do, but my one beef with this country based on my experience biking through it so far is that the gas stations are so very disappointing. Every time I'd pass one hoping I had finally found my next snack/drink stop, it ended up being a place that _just_ sells gas, and maybe car parts. Maybe my one car-brained conviction is that gas stations should always be snack meccas. So alas, I settled for deviating from my route a little bit to find the closest grocery store. I had the fun idea to pick up some stroopwafels as a camp dessert for the night instead of the usual marshmallows, in addition to another liter of water and some dried mangoes and powerade for road fuel. 

As I was packing my groceries before setting off again, a woman approached me and started asking me about my bike in Dutch. Even though I told her I only spoke een beetje Nederlands, she either didn't know much English or maybe just decided to be patient with me because she continued on speaking veel Nederlands to me anyway. I told her about my journey in stumbling Dutch that occasionally lapsed into Danish, trying not to let my nerves get the best of me in my excitement at the chance to practice my new language with a stranger. She was very kind and peppered me with lots of "wat leuk!" and wished me luck on my travels after a long anecdote about wishing her kids would bike more with her; truly a highlight of my day :) 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-21.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-22.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-23.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

After that the next ten miles flew by I was treated to a lovely stretch of sunshine and canals and bridges with plentiful tree cover for breaks from the heat. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-24.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-25.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

Closing in on the last ten miles of the day, I was treated to a top-tier bridge overlook of the city of Deventer. Oh, and another windmill! I was calling with my friend Alex at the time and was thoroughly entertained listening to her on the other end of the phone getting into a conversation with a random person she had encountered on the street. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-26.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-27.JPG --nocaption --notitle 

Of course, no bike day would be complete without at least a little hiccup of some kind, and so it was that I ended up having quite the time finding my way to my third and final camping spot in Klarenbeek. Around 2 miles from the destination, I ended up at a dead end where the road on my route was completely closed off, so I had to use google maps on my phone to find an alternate way that added a couple more miles. That was fine since I wasn't feeling too tired yet. The real challenge started once I arrived at the end point of the route, squinting at the pdf map I had been sent on my phone to try to determine whether the entrance was to the left or to the right of the given address number. I tentatively went for the left at first, venturing nervously past a sign that said "private property" and looking back and forth between the diagram on my phone and the farm buildings to my left trying to make the shapes match up. Eventually I reached the end of the long driveway, which was a dead end with an electric fence holding some cows who seemed bemused by my presence. After a couple more minutes of pondering the diagram, I realized I should have taken the entrance to the right and was instead in that moment definitely trespassing on some random stranger's property. I frantically backtracked, praying that nobody was home and feeling very grateful that I wasn't on some random farm in the U.S. where it could easily have been a _much_ more dangerous situation. 

Once back on the main road I found the hidden gate to the right and followed the diagram on an adventure through some forest before emerging onto a picturesque clearing with a beautiful old tower and some lawn chairs and a cute sign welcoming 1nitetent visitors. There was even a composting toilet, what luxury! Once I got over my relief at finally finding the spot, I collapsed in one of the chairs and relished in the feeling of knowing I would almost certainly finish this entire journey as planned. All three of the campsites reached, over 300 miles traveled, just a short half day ride the next morning to finish it off. That realization felt really, really good. Maybe even better than dinner and a stroopwafel warmed over the camp stove, or perhaps a close second.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-29.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day3-30.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
# Day 4: Apeldoorn 🇳🇱 -> Nijmegen 🇳🇱
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=203178121&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 90%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
Unfortunately, even though the campsite was lovely, I ended up having one of the worst tent sleeps I've ever had. A little after midnight something outside started screeching so loudly it sounded like it was two inches away from my ear, and I could not for the _life_ of me figure out what kind of creature it was. I have attached audio for your consideration (if you know what it was, please do tell because I'm still curious!). I had to resort to putting in headphones to try to drown out the sound, which didn't help very much. 

So after a night of very intermittent and shallow sleep I emerged from the tent feeling swollen, sore, dehydrated, tired, hungry, etc etc. But thankfully there was only a half day of riding left to go, and I felt better after some warm oatmeal for breakfast. I said goodbye to whatever creature was screaming at me all night and made my way back out through the forest before setting off just after 8 into a grey and foggy morning. It was supposed to get a lot warmer later, so I was happy to beat the heat for the first few hours of the day.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-2.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-1.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-3.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
After about 10 miles I got my first proper hills in the Netherlands in an absolutely gorgeous national park. And despite all the extra weight and being on my fourth day of riding, I felt pretty good on the climbs! And the downhills were incredibly refreshing after so much flat. The roads were beautifully paved and I had them almost all to myself as I spent the next hour cruising through the forests.
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-4.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-5.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-6.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-7.JPG --nocaption --notitle 
Then I passed through the city of Arnhem, which provided the opportunity for a water stop and another nice bridge. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-8.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-9.JPG --nocaption --notitle
After Arnhem I ended up on a really cool bike highway that was pleasant in every way except the weather getting a little too hot. I saw my first sign pointing towards Nijmegen, which was very exciting. I also started seeing clues that I was approaching the 4daagse, with the orange and green flag appearing outside more and more buildings. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-12.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-10.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-11.JPG --nocaption --notitle
And then came the magical moment a little after 12pm where I saw my first familiar sight in over 330 miles: the bridge crossing the Waal river into Nijmegen. My favorite bridge of the whole trip and it's not even close. The banks of the river were decked out with colorful tents and it was clear that there was a massive party underway throughout the city. I spent a little while sipping some water and sending to updates to people that I had arrived and admiring the view before slowly making my way over the last bridge of my journey. 
!figs bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-13.JPG bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-14.JPG --nocaption --notitle
It was more than a little surreal to spend the last couple miles biking past places I'd seen before after four days of everything being new and unknown to me. I had been a bit nervous at the start of this trip that I would arrive too broken and tired to make the most of the visit, so I was thrilled and relieved with how good I felt; I was a little sore and sleep deprived but honestly I felt like I could have biked another century that day if I really had to. Upon arriving at my girlfriend's family's house I was treated to a refreshing shower and the lunch of my dreams (✨bread✨) before heading back out into the city with her brother to go meet her at the end of her third day of walking. What followed was a wonderful few days filled with lovely people and many moments that felt too good to be true. I could not have been prouder to see her walking down the Via Gladiola on the final stretch of the fourth day and I was so grateful I got to be there to see it.

## Epilogue 
I was told that the vierdaagse is like a utopia of sorts, and after witnessing it in person I understand that. It's a whole four days devoted to the indomitable will of the human spirit. The fact that everyone must walk is a great equalizer of sorts; regardless of how fit you are, it will take you a very long time and as a result it will challenge your body and your mind. There is no single "winner" and nobody keeps close track of the time; finishing is finishing, and that's all there is to it. Everyone helps each other and thousands of people gather on the sidelines and party for hours and cheer on the walkers. It's a little impossible not to be happy there. 

I think the experience of relying on nobody but myself for four days to get there made me appreciate the magic of the event even more. I've always felt much more comfortable with my lows being my burden to bear and mine alone, and I struggle with accepting help from others even when I really need it. And don't get me wrong, some of the most potent happiness I've ever felt has been while flying down a hill in the middle of nowhere with nobody but me and my bike. 
!text+img
But there's something beautiful and human in the best sense of the word about being vulnerable enough to lean on others through adversity and patient enough to show up for those you love. In standing outside for hours offering drinks and snacks and cold water sprays to strangers because you know they'll be thirsty and hungry and overheated. And in cheering and waving signs and dancing to music and allowing the joy of others to fill you up until you're overflowing with it, until you can't help but spread it further. 
!img bikey-to-the-netherlands/day4-15.jpeg --nocaption --notitle
!endblock
__ENDCONTENT__
