---
title: Tour de Trolls Syd
slug: tour-de-trolls-syd
cover_photo: tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-40.JPG
created_on: 2024-03-01
location: Copenhagen, Denmark
html: building_blocks/post-detail.html
tags:
---
__CONTENT__
!block
## Leg 1: Copenhagen - Lolland Century
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=152031800&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="width: 1px; min-width: 100%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>
!text+img
Just shy of 7am, I set off from our apartment in Amagerbro and joined the flow of bike commuters in the grey, misty pre-dawn light. I very soon found myself alone on the bike paths as I took a now-familiar route out of the city along Kalvebod Fælled and then passed through Brøndby Strand.
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-1.JPG --notitle --nocaption
The next part I had hoped would be more beach views but ended up being mostly just a somewhat boring slog alongside cars through the suburbs. Eventually once I passed through Køge the traffic thinned out and I turned onto some less busy roads that began a very nice meandering stretch through farmland. I stopped briefly for a snack next to some sheep, but not too long because the sky was oscillating between mist and light rain so the cold set in quick once I stopped moving. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-2.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-3.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-4.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
From this point on, I barely saw a single soul for several hours. I meandered over rolling hills past fields and fields of farmlands and admired the windmills and let my thoughts wander; it was lovely. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-5.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-8.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-11.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
Between the brooding grey sky and the medieval-looking thatched roof houses and the sort of timelessness one feels travelling alone on narrow winding roads, the landscape really did feel a little haunted. Or at least, *old* in a very european sort of way. Exhibit A: rows of trees forming a skeletal canopy as I rode towards a murky patch of light in the distance. Exhibit B: a deeply haunted looking mansion peeking out from a fork in the path. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-6.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-7.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
While it might have been a little haunted, it was also deeply charming. I passed a few trees with very danish wooden heart signs bearing messages to the effect of "give yourself time". 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-9.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-10.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
!text+img
I did happen to be racing against the sun that day so I couldn't quite fully take the message to heart, but I did give myself a little time shortly after I hit the 50 mile mark to stop for a short break next to a house with an adorable wood carving of pooh and piglet. 
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-12.JPG --notitle --nocaption
After a water refill and a somewhat sorry excuse for a lunch (pretzels and the other half of a protein bar), I continued onwards and was a little bummed after my idyllic stretch of fields and silence to see that it looked like I was turning back onto a road with cars. However, one of my favorite things about biking in Denmark is the frequent occurence of the bike tunnel; you think that you're running up into a heavily trafficked road, and then you instead just dip right beneath it and onto a hidden path just for bikes, free from the ceaseless periodic roar in your left ear of cars passing by. It's the best. Anyway, that happened and once again I was alone with my thoughts and the rolling hills and the occasional sheep.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-13.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-14.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
Then all of a sudden, I did a double take; at the end of the road I could just make out what looked to be water in the distance. I had lost all sense of where I was on the map so I had no idea that I was approaching coastline! Very exciting. As I got closer it turned out to be exactly that; I turned the corner onto a stretch of road that snaked along Præsto Fjord, admiring the sea to my left and the forest to my right.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-15.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-16.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-17.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
!text+img
A little after that I pulled over by a decently thick patch of forest to pee, and when I emerged from behind the trees I felt inexplicably yet deeply unnerved by how these horses were staring at me from across the road. Like they knew me and they knew my sins. Anyway, onwards.
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-18.JPG --notitle --nocaption
The seaside eventually gave way again to farmland, and I pushed the pace a bit while riding the high of the sun peeking out from behind the clouds. I passed several of what appeared to be christmas tree farms and wondered how much bigger the trees will be by November. Although I relished in some nice downhill cruises, with all the extra weight on my bike I could definitely tell that the balance of the grade was tending uphill. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-19.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-20.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-21.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
After passing through the somewhat larger town of Vordingborg, I reached my first bridge of the day right around mile 70. The sun was fully shining at this point and I was feeling great - even better with the addition of a cooler-than-average bike tunnel. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-24.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-26.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-25.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
I then made my way towards the big bridge of the day - Storstrømsbroen, which connects the islands of Sjælland and Lolland. I had a bit of a scare trying to navigate here, though, as I learned that the new Storstrømsbroen is currently under construction, so several of the roads leading up to the current bridge are out of service. I could only see the very obviously not finished new bridge in the distance as my map tried to point me through a dead end, and I had a moment of panic that the maps were all wrong and I'd be unable to get to Lolland by bike. Standing increasingly worried and confused on the shoulder of a busy industrial road, I cross referenced my watch navigation with google maps, which both gave me the same useless instructions for how to get to a bridge that I couldn't even see past the construction. Eventually another biker passed me and banked sharp to the left through a tunnel under the roadblock, so I decided to just follow him and see what was on the other side.
!text+img
Thankfully that detour ended up being an alternate path through the construction that didn't show up on the maps, and once I checked my navigation again on the other side of the tunnel I saw both the currently operational bridge and a clear path to get back onto the route on my watch. From this vantage point you can see both the current Storstrømsbroen to the left and the (*very* unfinished) new Storstrømsbroen to the right.
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-27.JPG --notitle

I was so, so happy the bridge was indeed operational, because there is perhaps nothing that gives me bike joy more than traversing a big old bridge. The sun was shining, and I had a whole separate lane all to myself so I didn't have to worry about falling into oncoming traffic (@ that one terrifying bridge in the cape, you know who you are). I was positively over the moon, the kind of happy where you can't help but laugh out loud to yourself because it simply can't be contained.  
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-28.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-30.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-31.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-33.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-32.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
It was just after I crossed Storstrømsbroen that I reached my favorite century milestone - just under a marathon distance left to go. Favorite is maybe too strong a word; it's always a sort of sadistic benchmark because it makes me excruciatingly aware of just how long a marathon is, and the ironman dreams that dance in my head strike new fear into my heart. Also, in my experience there tend to be untold horrors that lie in the tail end of a long adventure, just when you lull yourself into the false sense of security of thinking you're almost done. 

This was by no means the worst instance of that phenomenon I've experienced, but I did indeed transition straight from the highest high of the bridge crossing to the lowest low in the form of roughly a half-marathon's worth of potent mental torture. This stretch consisted of a completely stick-straight expanse of bike path next to cars, directly into a headwind, with what I like to call a gaslight grade - that is, juuuuust subtle enough of an uphill that it looks almost flat, but you can sure as hell feel the way you're fighting gravity ever so slightly more than you should be. Halfway through I started feeling a shooting pain in my knees beyond the already accumulated soreness in my legs that made me reluctantly stop and take some painkillers, which helped. But it was at that point that it really sunk in that this was not only my first century in a while, but also my first century *with this much stuff*, and Denmark may not have mountains but it sure as hell does have hills. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-34.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-36.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
By this point I was definitely feeling the physical exhaustion but the worst thing about that stretch was definitely the torturous boringness of the straight road with no turns for miles that gave me nothing to think about except how uncomfortable I was. So thankfully the monotony was eventually disrupted by another bridge (yay!) and the small town of Sakskøbing and the always-lovely milestone of first seeing a street sign with the name of my final destination on it. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-35.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-37.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-38.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-39.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
There had been a while during the hell stretch where I was terrified to check how many miles I had left because I was afraid the answer would be too demoralizing, but shortly after Sakskøbing I summoned the courage to check and the sight of being just under 10 miles from the end gassed me up quite effectively. I ate some more dried fruit and found a second wind, and soared with that delirious sort of tired-happiness past some more windmills and into the town of Maribo just as the light of golden hour was beginning to creep through the trees.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-40.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-41.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
And just five minutes after my goal arrival time of 4:30, I crested one final hill to meet [Frie Vilje](https://trollmap.com/#/frie-vilje). With 97.7 miles clocked on my garmin, I humbly proposed a toast of greetings with a very Danish offering of Faxe Kondi. Not only did I do the thing, but I did it in almost exactly the amount of time that I planned for it to take. It felt incredibly empowering to have planned well and estimated correctly just how much I was capable of. I followed advice from a sign on a tree many miles back and gave myself a moment to bask in that sweet feeling of accomplishment. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-42.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-43.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-44.JPG --notitle --nocaption 
It was only a short bike ride from Frie Vilje to the nature school where I had reserved a tent site, and I crossed the 100 mile mark just before turning off the pavement and onto a short stretch of gravel as the sky was turning from grey to gold. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-46.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-45.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-47.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
I had just enough daylight left to set up camp, boil some water, and do the chores of the night wihtout feeling rushed for time. I enjoyed some salty rehydrated couscous and roasted some marshmallows over a call with my girlfriend to recap the day as the last of the light faded from the sky. I then settled in for some early but much needed rest, hoping the next morning wouldn't bring rain. The sleep came easy; it had been a really, really good day.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-48.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-49.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-50.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day1-51.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
## Leg 2: Island Hopping to Odense
<iframe src="https://ridewithgps.com/embeds?type=trip&id=152099876&sampleGraph=true&showPhotos=true" style="padding: 10px; width: 1px; min-width: 100%; height: 700px; border: none;" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Unfortunately but not unsurprisingly, I did indeed wake up at 6am to rain. Between that and my perpetual inability to estimate how long I need to get ready for the day, I ended up getting a little bit later of a start than I had planned, so I changed my ferry reservation from 10:15 to 11:15 right before I left camp at 7:30 just to be on the safe side. Breakfast was a watery chocolate muesli which was mildly unappetizing but still warm and filling so I couldn't complain too much. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-1.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-2.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit

I listened to some Jose Gonzales as I made my way through more fog-shrouded farmland, feeling better than I expected I would after biking a century and then sleeping on the ground in the cold. I also passed by an incredibly cool-looking bus stop bench and made a quick stop to shout a bit from inside it to see if the acoustics would be as weird as I thought (it was indeed a little echo-y).
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-3.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-4.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-6.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-7.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
!text+img
After about 10 miles of that, I passed through the *very* small town of Stokkemarke and this adorable roadside stand outside of a small bed and breakfast caught my eye. Thankfully today the route was much flatter and I had the wind at my back and was making fast time, so I made a sharp u-turn to go back and see if there was anything that caught my eye. I realized that it would be a little rude to have brought an offering to the Lolland troll yesterday but not the Odense troll today, and a little jar of blåbær preserve caught my eye as the perfect post-ride toast to bring with me on today's pilgrimage.
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-5.JPG --notitle --nocaption
I continued to make good time through the next 15 or so miles of farmland and small towns, realizing that if I really booked it I actually probably could have made the 10:15 ferry. But after racing the daylight all day yesterday I didn't mind the opportunity to free myself from another time crunch for today. Eventually I reached the one unpaved segment of the route for the day, and the path gradually gave way from pavement to dirt as I ventured deeper into the forest. Offroading on a foldy bike will never not be both deeply funny and mildly stress-inducing to me, but I recently switched to slower but thicker tires so I was less worried about getting a flat than usual. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-8.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-9.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-10.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
A side note of appreciation for the national bike routes of Denmark - it's always good fun to be a little doubtful that this is really the way I should be going and then see a little blue sign telling me I am indeed on the right path. After meandering a ways through the forest and almost losing the dirt path a couple times, I came upon one such sign for route 8 that welcomed me to a beautiful view of Nakskov Fjord just beyond the trees. I was very thankful for the lack of a time crunch as I cruised for another mile or so along the coastline, music off, listening to the birds and the wind rustling through the beach grass.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-11.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-12.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-13.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
The route then turned away from the coastline and back through more farmland, past many more windmills as some more daylight peeked ever so tentatively through the thick layer of clouds. It wasn't long before I knew I was approaching the ferry port in Tårs as I could begin to make out the boats in the distance and passed another route 8 sign telling me I was headed in the right direction.  
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-14.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-15.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
I arrived at the ferry terminal just in time to see the 10:15 boat leaving the port, so was glad I changed my ticket to 11:15 but a little bummed that there weren't any cute cafe's around to wait in (this was definitely wayyy more no-mans-land than the New England ferries I had taken in the past). But I was just as happy to find instead a completely empty heated waiting room, and was relieved to escape the rain that had just started up again and warm up with some snacks for a bit. I'm proud to report that my danish was just passable enough to present my ticket and get through the ferry boarding without being englished to; I was given an entire boarding lane to myself as the only bike aboard, which felt a little comical, and enjoyed the added perk of being first-on and first-off. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-16.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-21.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
The ferry ride lasted for just under an hour, and I was over the moon to see that just like on ferries I've taken in the states, there was an abundance of concessions for sale onboard. While I endeavor to not make a habit of eating meat when I can help it, I did absolutely devour a piping hot frankfurter and I have no regrets; it was delicious. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-18.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-20.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-19.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
!text+img
It was a little brutal to go back out into the cold after having just enough time to sip my coffee and settle into being warm and cozy, but I drew motivation from knowing that I would soon get to bike over another big (not as big as Storstrømsbroen, but still big) bridge. So I disembarked into more rainy mist and made quick work traversing the island of Langeland as I tried to warm my body up a bit.
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-22.JPG --notitle --nocaption
The rain stopped and the sun started to fight its way through the clouds again, which felt like a good omen as I excitedly made my way over the bridge from Langeland to Siø, the next tiny island in the Fyn archipelago. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-23.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-24.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-25.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-26.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
After battling headwinds all of the previous day, I was extra grateful for the flatness and tailwinds of this second leg as I soared past massive flocks of seabirds and over the next bridge from Siø to Tåsinge. And the day was only getting sunnier!
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-27.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-28.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-29.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
In Tåsinge I passed by some very danish and very whimsical roadside attractions, and could definitely tell that this is the sort of place that booms with tourists during the summer and lies a bit dormant for the rest of the year. Highlights include a welcoming toast from a friendly levitating hotdog and a store that seemed to exclusively sell mini lawn windmills whose tiny blades spun feverishly in the wind as I passed. If only I had a lawn. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-30.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-31.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
By the time I reached bridge #3 from Tåsinge to Fyn, the sun was fully shining and I was relishing the warmth. This bridge was rather thrillingly high up over the water, and I was surprised from the vantage point by how big of a town Svendborg is. The time was just shy of 2pm and I had just passed 50 miles on my garmin. The initial route I had planned would take me another 30 miles through hilly farmland from Svendborg to Odense, but I had decided in the morning to play it by ear once I got to Svendborg and consider taking the train the rest of the way instead if it seemed like I'd be challenged for energy or daylight. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-32.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-33.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
After assessing the situation while crossing the bridge, I decided to ignore my toxic completionist tendencies for once and take the easy route by train, since I felt like I had already seen plenty of hills and farmland and I wasn't feeling super excited about the idea of racing the sun again to get to the Odense troll. So I made my way to the Svendborg train station and checked the departure time tables, then waited half an hour for the next train with some cheesecake and a chai latte admiring the harbor. I then boarded the train to Odense and settled in for a nice hour of warming up and watching the fields pass by far faster than they would have on my bike.
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-34.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-35.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-36.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-37.JPG --notitle --nocaption --cropfit
I arrived in Odense a little after 3pm and felt immense relief that I was so close to the end as soon as I got back on my bike and felt how bad the soreness had set in during the last hour on the train. I rejoined the map on my watch with a little under 5 miles to the Odense troll, [Hans Hulehånd](https://trollmap.com/#/chapter-9-hans-hulehand). I didn't see much of the city as I ended up in the outskirts pretty quick, but I'd have time for that later in the night; my lovely friend/roommate Hudson had traveled by train from Copenhagen to meet me and we had made plans for a fun night out in Odense with delicious post-ride music, dinner, and drinks. But first, troll! 
!text+img
I was initially a little confused when I passed the end of the route with no sign of troll, but these guys are often very good at hiding so I wasn't surprised. Eventually I spotted a subtle clearing in the forest that opened on this delightfully whimsical little boardwalk. Time yet again to bring bike where bike perhaps should not go!
!img tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-38.JPG --nocaption --notitle
Bike hoisted over my shoulder, I ducked under some trees and hopped over some logs and there he was, with his own tiny house to boot! I made a toast of greetings with my blåbær preserve and spent a good while celebrating the end of the ride by calling my dear friend and bike buddy Alex from inside the troll house to catch up and recap the adventure. It felt like the perfect way to end the ride, very aligned with the spirit of the trolls. 
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-40.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-39.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-41.JPG --notitle --nocaption
And after a delightfully warm shower at a cute little bed and breakfast back in Odense, I reunited with my roommate and we enjoyed a fantastic night in the city. It was an excellent way to end an excellent day. I slept deeply that night and dreamed of the next troll quest to come :)
!figs tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-43.JPG tour-de-trolls-syd/day2-44.JPG --notitle --nocaption
!endblock
__ENDCONTENT__
